0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.md, before:

# Payment Processing Blueprint for PCI DSS-compliant environments

## Script Details: `0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.ps1`

This PowerShell script is used to verify pre-deployment requirements for the Payment Card Payment processing solution for PCI DSS enablement.
 
# Description 
 This PowerShell script automates the installation and verification of the PowerShell modules, as well as configuring the administrative user of the solution. 
 > NOTE: This script MUST be run as *Local Administrator* with elevated privileges. For more information, see [Why do I need to run as local administrator?](https://social.technet.microsoft.com/Forums/scriptcenter/en-US/41a4ba3d-93fd-485b-be22-c877afff1bd8/how-to-run-a-powershell-script-in-admin-account?forum=ITCG)  

 Running this script is not required, but installation will fail if the following modules have not been properly configured:
- AzureRM
- AzureAD
- MSOnline
- AzureDiagnosticsAndLogAnalytics
- SqlServer
- Enable-AzureRMDiagnostics (Script)

This script will attempt to install the following versions of these PowerShell modules:
- AzureRM - 5.7.0
- AzureAD - 2.0.0.131
- MSOnline - 1.1.166.0
- AzureDiagnosticsAndLogAnalytics - 0.1
- SqlServer - 21.0.17262

## Example 1: Installing required modules

```powershell
.\0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.ps1 -installModules
```
This command will validate or install any missing PowerShell modules which are required for this foundational architecture.

## Example 2: Configuring your global admin

```powershell
.\0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.ps1 
    -azureADDomainName contosowebstore.com
    -tenantId XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX
    -subscriptionId XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX
    -configureGlobalAdmin 
 ```

 This command will deploy installed modules, and setup the solution on a **new subscription**. It will create the user `adminXX@contosowebstore.com` with a randomly generated strong password (15 characters minimum, with uppercase and lowercase letters, and at least one number and one special character.) 
 
## Example 3: Install required modules and Configure your global admin.

```powershell
.\0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.ps1 
    -azureADDomainName contosowebstore.com
    -tenantId XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX
    -subscriptionId XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX
    -configureGlobalAdmin 
    -installModules
 ``` 
This command will validate or install any missing PowerShell modules which are required for this foundational architecture. It will create the user `adminXX@contosowebstore.com` with a randomly generated strong password (15 characters minimum, with uppercase and lowercase letters, and at least one number and one special character.) 
 
# Required parameters

> -azureADDomainName <String>

Specifies the ID of the Azure Active Directory Domain, as defined by [Get-ADDomain](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ee617224.aspx).

> -tenantId <String>

Specifies the ID of a tenant. If you do not specify this parameter, the account is authenticated with the home tenant.

> -subscriptionId <String>

Specifies the ID of a subscription. If you do not specify this parameter, the account is authenticated with the home tenant.

> -configureGlobalAdmin

Attempt to create an administrator user configured as a subscription administrator. An Active Directory Administrator with global privileges is required to run the installation. The local administrator must be in the `contosowebstore.com` domain namespace to run this solution. This step helps create the correct administrator user.

> -installModules

Installs and verifies all required modules. If any of the commands from the script fail, see the following references below for assistance.

## Troubleshooting your tenant administrator

The following debugging and troubleshooting steps can help identify common issues.

To test your username and passwords with [Azure RM](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/azureps-cmdlets-docs/), run the following commands in PowerShell:
```powershell
$cred = Get-Credential  
Login-AzureRmAccount -Credential $cred
```

To test [Azure AD](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dn975125.aspx), run the following commands in PowerShell:  
```powershell
$cred = Get-Credential  
Login-AzureAD -Credential $cred
```

Review the following documentation to test [Enable AzureRM Diagnostics](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/Enable-AzureRMDiagnostics/1.3/DisplayScript).                   
Review the following documentation to test [Azure Diagnostics and LogAnalytics](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/AzureDiagnosticsAndLogAnalytics/0.1).                  

To test [SQL Server PowerShell](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/hh231683.aspx?f=255&MSPPError=-2147217396#Installing#SQL#Server#PowerShell#Support), run the following commands in PowerShell:
```powershell
 $Credential = Get-Credential   Connect-AzureAD -Credential $Credential   Get-Module -ListAvailable -Name Sqlps;
```
## Troubleshooting your PowerShell Deployment scripts

Please verify that running the 0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.ps1 results in no error messages. This script configures the open PowerShell session for correctly deploying the ARM templates and performing deployment steps throughout running the 1-DeployAndConfigureAzureResources.ps1 script. 

If module import/installation challenges are experienced when running the 0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.ps1 script, navigate to C:\Program Files\WindowsPowerShell\Modules and remove any directories associated to the following items:
- AzureRM
- AzureAD
- MSOnline
- AzureDiagnosticsAndLogAnalytics
- SqlServer

As the setup script will run through module validation and import, the script can be run again with the -installmodules switch for setting up the PowerShell environment for running the deployment.

Commit message:

Documentation updates
Additional details provided for supporting the PowerShell deployment.

0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.md, after:

# Payment Processing Blueprint for PCI DSS-compliant environments

## Script Details: `0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.ps1`

This PowerShell script is used to verify pre-deployment requirements for the Payment Card Payment processing solution for PCI DSS enablement.
This script can also be used for installing and loading the necessary PowerShell modules to successfully deploy the Azure Resource Manager templates. 
 
# Description 
 This PowerShell script automates the installation and verification of the PowerShell modules for deploying this solution. This script also supports configuring an administrative user in Azure Active Directory for supporting the deployment. 
 > NOTE: This script MUST be run as *Local Administrator* with elevated privileges. For more information, see [Why do I need to run as local administrator?](https://social.technet.microsoft.com/Forums/scriptcenter/en-US/41a4ba3d-93fd-485b-be22-c877afff1bd8/how-to-run-a-powershell-script-in-admin-account?forum=ITCG)  

 Running this script is not required, but the deployment will fail if the following modules have not been properly configured and loaded into the PowerShell session:
- AzureRM
- AzureAD
- MSOnline
- AzureDiagnosticsAndLogAnalytics
- SqlServer
- Enable-AzureRMDiagnostics (Script)

This script will attempt to install the following versions of these PowerShell modules:
- AzureRM - 5.7.0
- AzureAD - 2.0.0.131
- MSOnline - 1.1.166.0
- AzureDiagnosticsAndLogAnalytics - 0.1
- SqlServer - 21.0.17262

## Example 1: Installing required modules

```powershell
.\0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.ps1 -installModules
```
This command will validate or install any missing PowerShell modules which are required for this foundational architecture.

## Example 2: Configuring an Azure Active Directory (AAD) global administrator

```powershell
.\0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.ps1 
    -azureADDomainName contosowebstore.com
    -tenantId XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX
    -subscriptionId XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX
    -configureGlobalAdmin 
 ```

 This command will deploy and load installed modules, and setup the solution on a **new subscription**. It will also create the user `adminXX@contosowebstore.com` with a randomly generated strong password (15 characters minimum, with uppercase and lowercase letters, and at least one number and one special character) for use with the deployment solution. 
 > NOTE: An active Azure Active Directory (AAD) domain name will be required for supporting this deployment. Before running this solution, verify a valid Azure Active Directory domain is accesible for deploying this solution with.  
 
## Example 3: Install required modules and Configure your global admin.

```powershell
.\0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.ps1 
    -azureADDomainName contosowebstore.com
    -tenantId XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX
    -subscriptionId XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX
    -configureGlobalAdmin 
    -installModules
 ``` 
This command will validate or install any missing PowerShell modules which are required for this foundational architecture. It will create the user `adminXX@contosowebstore.com` with a randomly generated strong password (15 characters minimum, with uppercase and lowercase letters, and at least one number and one special character). 
 
# Required parameters

> -azureADDomainName <String>

Specifies the ID of the Azure Active Directory Domain, as defined by [Get-ADDomain](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ee617224.aspx).

> -tenantId <String>

Specifies the ID of a tenant. If you do not specify this parameter, the account is authenticated with the home tenant.

> -subscriptionId <String>

Specifies the ID of a subscription. If you do not specify this parameter, the account is authenticated with the home tenant.

> -configureGlobalAdmin

Attempt to create an administrator user, configured as a subscription administrator. An Azure Active Directory Administrator with global privileges is required to run the installation. The local administrator must be in the domain namespace, specified by `-azureADDomainName`, to run this solution. This step helps create the correct administrator user.

> -installModules

Installs and verifies all required modules. If any of the commands from the script fail, see the following references below for assistance.

## Troubleshooting your tenant administrator

The following debugging and troubleshooting steps can help identify common issues.

To test your username and passwords with [Azure RM](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/azureps-cmdlets-docs/), run the following commands in PowerShell:
```powershell 
 Login-AzureRmAccount
```

To test [Azure AD](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dn975125.aspx), run the following commands in PowerShell:  
```powershell 
 Connect-AzureAD
```

Review the following documentation to test [Enable AzureRM Diagnostics](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/Enable-AzureRMDiagnostics/1.3/DisplayScript).                   
Review the following documentation to test [Azure Diagnostics and LogAnalytics](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/AzureDiagnosticsAndLogAnalytics/0.1).                  

To test [SQL Server PowerShell](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/hh231683.aspx?f=255&MSPPError=-2147217396#Installing#SQL#Server#PowerShell#Support), run the following commands in PowerShell:
```powershell  
 Connect-AzureAD  
 Get-Module -ListAvailable -Name Sqlps
```
## Troubleshooting your PowerShell deployment scripts

Please verify that running the 0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.ps1 results in no error messages. This script configures the open PowerShell session for correctly deploying the ARM templates and for performing deployment steps throughout running the 1-DeployAndConfigureAzureResources.ps1 or 1A-ContosoWebStoreDemoAzureResources.ps1 scripts. 

If module import/installation challenges are experienced when running the 0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.ps1 script, navigate to `C:\Program Files\WindowsPowerShell\Modules` and remove any directories associated to the following items:
- AzureRM
- AzureAD
- MSOnline
- AzureDiagnosticsAndLogAnalytics
- SqlServer

As the setup script will run through module validation and import, the script can be run again with the -installmodules switch for setting up the PowerShell environment for running the deployment.
