1-DeployAndConfigureAzureResources.md, before:

## 1-DeployAndConfigureAzureResources.ps1

 Deploying this solution requires that a subscription be configured with the proper permissions and roles. For more information, see [Script Details: 0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.ps1](./0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.md).
This and all PowerShell scripts in the enviroment will run in an ['Unrestricted' execution policy.](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ee176961.aspx?f=255&MSPPError=-2147217396)

![](images/Warning-sign.png) **CAUTION** The script adds domain users to the Azure Active Directory (AAD) tenant that you specify. It is recommended to create a new Azure Active Directory (AAD) tenant to test this demo payment processing solution.

![](images/Warning-sign.png) **CAUTION** It is recommended to use a [clean Windows 10](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/quick-create-portal) (or similar) VM to deploy the solution to ensure that the correct PowerShell modules get loaded. If challenges are experienced with loading the correct PowerShell modules, remove any Azure-specific modules from the PowerShell modules directory. 

![](images/Warning-sign.png) **CAUTION** If any issues are encountered during the deployment, see [FAQ and troubleshooting](pci-faq.md).


This PowerShell script is used to deploy this Blueprint.


```powershell
.\1-DeployAndConfigureAzureResources.ps1
```
### Deployment Timeline

The estimated time to deploy the solution components is shown in the diagram below. The total time required is approximately 2.0-2.5 hours from when the script starts. If the App Service Environment takes greater than 2 hours to deploy, the deployment may time out. 

## Example 1: Simple deployment 
    
```powershell
.\1-DeployAndConfigureAzureResources.ps1 
```

This deployment script creates the required Azure Active Directory (AAD) accounts and generates a self-signed certificate for the ASE ILB and Application Gateway SSL endpoint using a provided custom domain.
Users will be prompted for two logins, one for Azure Active Directory (AAD) and another for Azure Resource Manager (ARM). The only required inputs are guided prompts for providing an email address for SQL Threat Detection alerts and an Azure Subscription ID. 

## Example 2: Deploy with custom certificate and custom domain, and set password policy

```powershell
.\1-DeployAndConfigureAzureResources.ps1
```

This deployment script creates the required Azure Active Directory (AAD) accounts and deploys the necessary resources for the ASE ILB and Application Gateway SSL endpoint using a provided custom domain.
Users will be prompted for two logins, one for Azure Active Directory (AAD) and another for Azure Resource Manager (ARM). The only required inputs are guided prompts for providing an email address for SQL Threat Detection alerts and an Azure Subscription ID. 

Users will be prompted to provide their own custom certificate for supporting a custom domain, if selected for.

## Initiating the Deployment

An Azure Active Directory (AAD) Global Administrator account will be required for initiating this deployment. This user must be a *Global Administrator* that has been granted full control of the default Azure Active Directory instance. The user must be in the Azure Active Directory domain namespace.

In deploying this solution, two login prompts will be presented such that users' AAD Global Administrator account credentials are not captured and presented in the open PowerShell session. 

As the deployment utilizes both the *AzureRM* and *MSOnline* PowerShell modules for monitoring and configuring the deployment, there are two login prompts users will be required to provide credentials for. 

Azure Active Directory Global Admininistrator credentials will not be presented in the PowerShell console, and is securely authenticated through web portal logins. 

Role-based access control (RBAC) requires that an administrator grants themselves administrative rights in AAD. Refer to this blog for a detailed explanation.
> [Delegating Admin Rights in Microsoft Azure](https://www.petri.com/delegating-admin-rights-in-microsoft-azure)
> [PowerShell - Connecting to Azure Active Directory using Microsoft Account](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/29485364/powershell-connecting-to-azure-active-directory-using-microsoft-account) user.

For more information, see [Script Details: 0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.ps1](./0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.md).

## Required Parameters

> Resource Group Name

Specifies the Resource Group name into which all resources will be deployed.

> Azure Active Directory Domain Name

Specifies the ID of the Azure Active Directory Domain, as defined by [Get-ADDomain](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ee617224.aspx).

> Azure Subscription ID

Specifies the ID of a subscription. This needs to be provided for validating the Azure Active Directory (AAD) global administrator account that will be used with the deployment. 

> Suffix

Used as an identifier in the deployment of the solution. This can be any character or identifier, such as a business unit name.

> Email Address for SQL Threat Detection Alerts

Provide a valid email address for SQL Threat Detection alerts and issues associated with your deployment.

## Optional Parameters

> Custom Host Name

Specifies a custom domain for the deployment. To be able to connect to the website, it is required that you provide a custom domain name, such as contoso.com. This is enabled by using the '-customHostName' switch in step 2. A custom domain name is not required to successfully deploy the solution for it to run, however you will not be able to connect to the website for demonstration purposes. For more information, see [How to buy and enable a custom domain name for Azure Web Apps](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service-web/custom-dns-web-site-buydomains-web-app). If this parameter is used you will be required to update the application's IP address with your DNS hosting provider (custom domain name). In the example, the customer’s DNS settings require the Application
Gateway IP address to be updated as a DNS record on the hosting site. You can do this via the steps below.

1.  Collect the Application Gateway IP address using the following PowerShell command:

```powershell
Get-AzureRmPublicIpAddress | where {$_.Name -eq "publicIp-AppGateway"} |select IpAddress
```

This command will return the IP address. For example:
>` IpAddress`  
>` ---------`
>` 52.168.0.1`

2.  Log into your DNS hosting provider and update the A/AAAA record with the Application Gateway IP address.

> Enable SSL

Indicates whether to enable SSL on the Application Gateway, allowing the user to browse the website via https://www.contosowebstore.com.

| Input          | Usage |
|----------------|-------|
| none           | Customer can browse the application via HTTP (for example http://...). |
| Switch present | Customer can browse the application via **`HTTPS`** (for example https://...).  When this switch is used in combination with `appGatewaySslCertPath` and `appGatewaySslCertPwd`, it enables a custom certificate on the Application Gateway. If you want to pass a custom certificate, use the .pfx certificate file with the process below to create the correct file. |  

1.  Review the instructions on [creating a website SSL certificate](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service-web/web-sites-configure-ssl-certificate).

2.  Retrieve your private key. This file will have a name similar to `www.contosowebstore.com\_private\_key.key`.

3.  Retrieve your certificate. This file will have a name similar to `www.contosowebstore.com\_ssl\_certificate.cer`.

4.  [Create a personal information exchange (pfx) file](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd261744.aspx) and protect this file with a password.

## Optional variables

> $location

This variable can be changed to a different location than the default value `eastus`. Changing this setting requires that the deployment is monitored to ensure its successful completion.
If this is updated, the variables set in `azuredeploy.json` under `aseLocation` and `omsRegion` will need to be updated to match the corresponding region set for `$location`. 

> $automationAcclocation

This variable can be changed to a different location than the default value `eastus2`. Changing this setting requires that the deployment is monitored to ensure its successful completion.
If this is updated, the variable set in `azuredeploy.json` under `automationRegion` will need to be updated to match the corresponding region set for `$automationAcclocation`. 

## Troubleshooting the deployment script

If errors are experience when attempting to run the 1A-ContosoWebStoreDemoAzureResources.ps1 script, verify that the correct version PowerShell modules were imported when running the 0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.ps1 script. 

## Next Steps (2-EnableOMSLoggingOnResources.ps1)

Once the deployment is complete, `2-EnableOMSLoggingOnResources.ps1` can be run for enabling OMS logging on the resources deployed with the deployment. It is recommended to fully deploy an application solution into the environment before running this script.

Commit message:

Formatting Updates and Additional Notes
Additional notes on running the deployment solution and formatting updates.

1-DeployAndConfigureAzureResources.md, after:

## 1-DeployAndConfigureAzureResources.ps1

 Deploying this solution requires that a subscription be configured with the proper permissions and roles. For more information, see [Script Details: 0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.ps1](./0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.md).
This and all PowerShell scripts in the enviroment will run in an ['Unrestricted' execution policy.](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ee176961.aspx?f=255&MSPPError=-2147217396)

![](images/Warning-sign.png) **CAUTION** The script adds domain users to the Azure Active Directory (AAD) tenant that you specify. It is recommended to create a new Azure Active Directory (AAD) tenant to test this demo payment processing solution.

![](images/Warning-sign.png) **CAUTION** It is recommended to use a [clean Windows 10](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/quick-create-portal) (or similar) VM to deploy the solution to ensure that the correct PowerShell modules get loaded. If challenges are experienced with loading the correct PowerShell modules, remove any Azure-specific modules from the PowerShell modules directory. 

![](images/Warning-sign.png) **CAUTION** If any issues are encountered during the deployment, see [FAQ and troubleshooting](pci-faq.md).


This PowerShell script is used to deploy this Blueprint.


```powershell
.\1-DeployAndConfigureAzureResources.ps1
```
### Deployment Timeline

The estimated time to deploy the solution components is shown in the diagram below. The total time required is approximately 2.0-2.5 hours from when the script starts. If the App Service Environment takes greater than 2 hours to deploy, the deployment may time out. 

# Using the script

The deployment script is a guided solution that will prompt for additional inputs if further customization is required. The 'Optional Parameters' section outlines the customization options available for this deployment. 

## Simple deployment 
    
```powershell
.\1-DeployAndConfigureAzureResources.ps1 
```

This deployment script creates the required Azure Active Directory (AAD) accounts and generates a self-signed certificate for the ASE ILB and Application Gateway SSL endpoint using a provided custom domain.
Users will be prompted for two logins, one for Azure Active Directory (AAD) and another for Azure Resource Manager (ARM). The only required inputs are guided prompts for providing an email address for SQL Threat Detection alerts and an Azure Subscription ID. 

## Deploy with a custom certificate and a custom domain

```powershell
.\1-DeployAndConfigureAzureResources.ps1
```

This deployment script creates the required Azure Active Directory (AAD) accounts and deploys the necessary resources for the ASE ILB and Application Gateway SSL endpoint using a provided custom domain.
Users will be prompted for two logins, one for Azure Active Directory (AAD) and another for Azure Resource Manager (ARM). The only required inputs are guided prompts for providing an email address for SQL Threat Detection alerts and an Azure Subscription ID. 

Users will be prompted to provide their own custom certificate for supporting a custom domain, if selected for.

## Initiating the Deployment

An Azure Active Directory (AAD) Global Administrator account will be required for initiating this deployment. This user must be a *Global Administrator* that has been granted full control of the default Azure Active Directory instance. The user must be in the Azure Active Directory domain namespace.

In deploying this solution, two login prompts will be presented such that users' AAD Global Administrator account credentials are not captured and presented in the open PowerShell session. 

As the deployment utilizes both the *AzureRM* and *MSOnline* PowerShell modules for monitoring and configuring the deployment, there are two login prompts users will be required to provide credentials for. 

Azure Active Directory Global Admininistrator credentials will not be presented in the PowerShell console, and is securely authenticated through web portal logins. 

Role-based access control (RBAC) requires that an administrator grants themselves administrative rights in AAD. Refer to this blog for a detailed explanation.
> [Delegating Admin Rights in Microsoft Azure](https://www.petri.com/delegating-admin-rights-in-microsoft-azure)
> [PowerShell - Connecting to Azure Active Directory using Microsoft Account](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/29485364/powershell-connecting-to-azure-active-directory-using-microsoft-account) user.

For more information, see [Script Details: 0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.ps1](./0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.md).

## Required Parameters

> Resource Group Name

Specifies the Resource Group name into which all resources will be deployed.

> Azure Active Directory Domain Name

Specifies the ID of the Azure Active Directory Domain, as defined by [Get-ADDomain](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ee617224.aspx).

> Azure Subscription ID

Specifies the ID of a subscription. This needs to be provided for validating the Azure Active Directory (AAD) global administrator account that will be used with the deployment. 

> Suffix

Used as an identifier in the deployment of the solution. This can be any character or identifier, such as a business unit name.

> Email Address for SQL Threat Detection Alerts

Provide a valid email address for SQL Threat Detection alerts and issues associated with your deployment.

## Optional Parameters

> Custom Host Name

Specifies a custom domain for the deployment. To be able to connect to the website, it is required that you provide a custom domain name, such as contoso.com. This is enabled by using the '-customHostName' switch in step 2. A custom domain name is not required to successfully deploy the solution for it to run, however you will not be able to connect to the website for demonstration purposes. For more information, see [How to buy and enable a custom domain name for Azure Web Apps](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service-web/custom-dns-web-site-buydomains-web-app). If this parameter is used you will be required to update the application's IP address with your DNS hosting provider (custom domain name). In the example, the customer’s DNS settings require the Application
Gateway IP address to be updated as a DNS record on the hosting site. You can do this via the steps below.

1.  Collect the Application Gateway IP address using the following PowerShell command:

```powershell
Get-AzureRmPublicIpAddress | where {$_.Name -eq "publicIp-AppGateway"} |select IpAddress
```

This command will return the IP address. For example:
>` IpAddress`  
>` ---------`
>` 52.168.0.1`

2.  Log into your DNS hosting provider and update the A/AAAA record with the Application Gateway IP address.

> Enable SSL

Indicates whether to enable SSL on the Application Gateway, allowing the user to browse the website via https://www.contosowebstore.com.

| Input          | Usage |
|----------------|-------|
| none           | Customer can browse the application via HTTP (for example http://...). |
| Switch present | Customer can browse the application via **`HTTPS`** (for example https://...).  When this switch is used in combination with `appGatewaySslCertPath` and `appGatewaySslCertPwd`, it enables a custom certificate on the Application Gateway. If you want to pass a custom certificate, use the .pfx certificate file with the process below to create the correct file. |  

1.  Review the instructions on [creating a website SSL certificate](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service-web/web-sites-configure-ssl-certificate).

2.  Retrieve your private key. This file will have a name similar to `www.contosowebstore.com\_private\_key.key`.

3.  Retrieve your certificate. This file will have a name similar to `www.contosowebstore.com\_ssl\_certificate.cer`.

4.  [Create a personal information exchange (pfx) file](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd261744.aspx) and protect this file with a password.

## Optional variables

> $location

This variable can be changed to a different location than the default value `eastus`. Changing this setting requires that the deployment is monitored to ensure its successful completion.
If this is updated, the variables set in `azuredeploy.json` under `aseLocation` and `omsRegion` will need to be updated to match the corresponding region set for `$location`. 

> $automationAcclocation

This variable can be changed to a different location than the default value `eastus2`. Changing this setting requires that the deployment is monitored to ensure its successful completion.
If this is updated, the variable set in `azuredeploy.json` under `automationRegion` will need to be updated to match the corresponding region set for `$automationAcclocation`. 

## Troubleshooting the deployment script

If errors are experience when attempting to run the 1A-ContosoWebStoreDemoAzureResources.ps1 script, verify that the correct version PowerShell modules were imported when running the 0-Setup-AdministrativeAccountAndPermission.ps1 script. 

## Next Steps (2-EnableOMSLoggingOnResources.ps1)

Once the deployment is complete, `2-EnableOMSLoggingOnResources.ps1` can be run for enabling OMS logging on the resources deployed with the deployment. It is recommended to fully deploy an application solution into the environment before running this script.
